 PETRONAS Integrated Report 2020 Agility How we continue to deliver energy and solutions Resilience Deliberate steps taken to strengthen the foundation for sustainable progress Sustainability Enriching lives through the transformative power of energy Moving Forward with You Passionate about Progress  Our Response to External Challenges Cover Rationale Having weathered the twin shocks of 2020, we have learnt a thing or two about fighting the good fight. Being passionate about progress, we are ready to move forward with you. Together, we will PETRONAS Lubricants Students and staff of Unprecedented Challenging Environment paint a better future amidst the unknown; together, we will bring a beautiful smile to someone’s International (PLI) converted Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS remained resilient and agile amidst the unprecedented twin its coolant production lines to PETRONAS, through the shocks. We turned in a commendable performance in FY2020, through face. Despite the onslaught of challenges, we will put our best foot forward. Even when our steps manufacture ethanol-based Engineering, Prototyping swift implementation of several tactical interventions, as well as decisive are constrained, we will move forward relentlessly, tenaciously. It takes courage to act, passion sanitisers for hospitals and the and Innovation Centre and prudent measures. to progress; it takes a purpose greater than ourselves to keep moving. That is the strength of the local communities in Italy and Brazil. repurposed their 3D human spirit and human ingenuity – to collectively rise to the occasion for each other, with each printing and laser cut other. Yes, we will rise together once more – this time, to paint a sustainable future for all. PLI also ventured into new technology to produce 120 PAT excluding Positive Strong product lines by enhancing its face shields daily with the FY2020 net im lop ssa eir sment CFFO EBITDA existing Fulcron formulation to target of producing 10,800 RM40.7 RM55.3 RM10.5 bring to market specially designed shields in three months for billion billion billion Inside this Report disinfectant products through the hospitals and clinics in Perak. Arexons operation in Milan. 1 About this Report The framework, boundaries and principles that guide us in our integrated reporting journey. Reporting Framework, 4 Scope and Boundaries 2 PETRONAS in 2020 Our purpose, mandate, aspirations, structure and presence. We are PETRONAS 8 Business Snapshots 14 Corporate Structure 18 Sustainability Agenda 10 The Group Overview 16 3 Strategic Progress Leadership perspectives and insights into how we are executing strategy to create value. with You Letter from the Chairman 32 The World in 2020 48 Upstream 72 Letter from the President and 38 Engaging with Stakeholders 54 Gas + New Energy 82 Group Chief Executive Officer Material Topics 58 Downstream 92 Letter from the Executive Vice President 44 Value Creation Model 60 Project Delivery and Technology 102 and Group Chief Financial Officer Risks Linked to Creating Value 64 4 Creating Sustainable Value Our progress to date on the sustainability front. Five-Year Sustainability Key 112 Safeguard the Environment 116 Positive Social Impact 136 Performance Data 5 Commitment to Governance The PETRONAS leadership team and our commitment to good governance practices. Board Composition 192 Profile of Company Secretaries 197 Corporate Governance at PETRONAS 202 Profile of Board of Directors 193 Profile of Executive Leadership Team 198 Sustainability Governance 214 Project Delivery and Technology 6 Financial Review and Other Information Introduction of PDB’s “Love Local” campaign Launched Implementation The PETRONAS Introduction of to intensify support for local entrepreneurs by the Advanced of the Integrated Integrated Vision robotic technologies An overview of our financial performance and other relevant details. leveraging PETRONAS’ network of Kedai Mesra Diagnostic and Pipeline Integrating for Operation (ANYmal and BIKE) stations to market their goods. Prognostics Management System Excellence to enable remote (ADaPT) (i-PIMS) enabling Technology (PIVOT) and autonomous technology data harvesting from tool is a descriptive operations, and in Group Financial Results and Position 217 Appendix 228 PDB launched Deliver2Me, a new feature under which provides various platforms and predictive turn to minimise • Analysis of Financial Results Glossary of Terms 230 the Setel banner, which allows retail customers to early warning which helps to analytics tool that HSSE issues as well as • Analysis of Financial Position Scan this QR code to p du elr ic vh era es de dit ie rm ecs t lf yr o tom t hK ee id r a vi e M hie cs lera s a wn hd i lh e a rv ee fu t eh le lim ng . a ton d p ri en vte er nv te cn rt eio en p f pu iprt eh le inr e e in nh tea gn rc ite y the h me alp cs h ii nm ep ryro rv ee li ability i im n vp ir eo wv e o e f ffi lec ssie hn uc mie as n failure. system at multiple via early detection of intervention. access our Financial locations across mechanical failure. • Analysis of Cash Flow Report 2020 Peninsular Malaysia. • Five-Year Key Financial Indicators  Having faced 2020’s highly volatile operating environment in a resilient Our Response to External Challenges manner, PETRONAS has emerged today a stronger, more agile and PETRONAS’ companies, operations, Yayasan PETRONAS Yayasan PETRONAS Upstream business PETRONAS Lubricants Students and staff of Unprecedented Challenging Environment relevant energy and solutions partner. associations and staff globally contributed contributed an additional operations committed International (PLI) converted Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS remained resilient and agile amidst the unprecedented twin banded together and contributed RM20.1 RM2.5 some its coolant production lines to PETRONAS, through the shocks. We turned in a commendable performance in FY2020, through a total of RM3.5 manufacture ethanol-based Engineering, Prototyping swift implementation of several tactical interventions, as well as decisive Resiliently Moving Forward RM50.6 million million sanitisers for hospitals and the and Innovation Centre and prudent measures. The year 2020 was one of the most challenging years for the oil and gas industry as the twin shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic and the unprecedented million local communities in Italy and Brazil. repurposed their 3D plunge in oil prices dealt a drastic blow to all. PETRONAS too was not spared from the onslaught and this was reflected in our challenging operational and million worth of medical equipment worth of medical equipment to printing and laser cut weaker financial performance for the year in review. As we worked swiftly to ensure the resilience of our business, value chain and the energy supply needs and supplies to the Ministry of to the MOH and NADMA to eight host countries PLI also ventured into new technology to produce 120 PAT excluding Positive Strong of national and global customers, the health, safety and well-being of people remained our topmost priority. i fln tc ta es nh a hn ed k ai nn dd t mo ih c’e sl p H Me aa nl ath e(M mO enH t) a gn ed N cya t (i No Ana Dl D Ais aster c oo m COba Vt Dth -e 9s e inc o thn ed sw taa tv ee c ao nm ap ir dis fi on rg fu ern sd os p exr io sd tinu gc t l uin lce ros nb y e rn mh ua ln ac tii on ng tit os f ta ac rge s th oie fl pd rs d da uil cy nw gi t 1h t ,8h 0e FY2020 net im lop ssa eir sment RC MF 4F 0O REB MIT 55D .A a t p e c urve g A n M ) f I 1 of d p n al F fo e o i 0 0 .7 3 RM10.5 While we did not emerge from 2020 unscathed, we have learnt hard lessons and gained solid insights into what we need to do next to remain relevant as a worldwide to help hospitals and healthcare Sabah, Malaysia. protective equipment bring to market specially designed shields in three months for billion billion billion progressive energy and solutions partner in the new normal. As we steadfastly put the building blocks in place from which we will move forward from, we . frontliners mitigate the spread of the (PPE) as well as medical disinfectant products through the hospitals and clinics in Perak. are confident that we will continue to chart resilient, sustainable progress. COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia. equipment. Arexons operation in Milan. Moving FFoorrwwaarrdd with You The Year in Review PETRONAS Upstream Gas + New Energy Downstream Project Delivery and Technology PETRONAS joined the The PETRONAS Group A total of 10 discoveries were made Achieved first Made 62 Signed a long-term deal Established the Hydrogen PETRONAS Floating Introduction of the new PETRONAS Primax Introduction of PDB’s “Love Local” campaign Launched Implementation The PETRONAS Introduction of World Business Council for announced its net zero in 2020 comprising seven discoveries, hydrocarbon for 17 Liquefied with Tiger Clean Energy business and entered a LNG DUA set sail and 97 with Pro-Race by PETRONAS Dagangan to intensify support for local entrepreneurs by the Advanced of the Integrated Integrated Vision robotic technologies Sustainable Development carbon emissions which contributed to our resource projects: 14 in Malaysia, Natural Gas Limited (TCEL) for the partnership with Sarawak achieved its Ready Berhad (PDB), engineered to meet the leveraging PETRONAS’ network of Kedai Mesra Diagnostic and Pipeline Integrating for Operation (ANYmal and BIKE) (WBCSD), which provides aspiration by 2050 (NZCE addition namely in Malaysia, Suriname as two in Indonesia and one (LNG) deliveries supply of LNG to TCEL’s Energy Berhad (SEB) to explore for Start-Up (RFSU) demands of advanced technology engines as stations to market their goods. Prognostics Management System Excellence to enable remote access to a like-minded 2050), as part of PETRONAS’ well as Gulf of Mexico, USA and Gulf of in Oman. via the Virtual LNG ISO Tank filling the commercial production of milestone at the Rotan well as customers’ desire for more powerful, (ADaPT) (i-PIMS) enabling Technology (PIVOT) and autonomous network of peers focused on commitment to minimise Mexico, Mexico. Pipeline facility at Bintulu for green hydrogen and its supply gas field in Block H, responsive and efficient performance. technology data harvesting from tool is a descriptive operations, and in sustainably delivering energy to the impact of its carbon System (VPS). distribution to China. value chain in Asia. offshore Sabah. PDB launched Deliver2Me, a new feature under which provides various platforms and predictive turn to minimise an expanding world population footprint on existing and the Setel banner, which allows retail customers to early warning which helps to analytics tool that HSSE issues as well as by leveraging on collaboration, future operations as well as purchase items from Kedai Mesra and have them and intervention further enhance the helps improve improve efficiencies technology and people. to deploy more low carbon Achieved Final Investment Decision (FID) for 13 projects: Nine projects in A total of 13 out of 15 Lotuss stores (previously Completed the maiden LNG bunkering vessel PETRONAS made its e-commerce debut delivered directly to their vehicles while refuelling. to prevent creep pipeline integrity machinery reliability in view of less human solution technologies. Malaysia, two in the Republic of South Sudan, one in Turkmenistan and known as TESCO) across Malaysia were fitted (LBV) delivery from the MV Avenir to the Siem on Shopee by showcasing the PETRONAS failure. system at multiple via early detection of intervention. one in Brazil. with rooftop solar solutions, which will help Aristotle at Pasir Gudang, Johor as part of efforts to Sprinta lubricant range by PLI. locations across mechanical failure. Lotuss reduce approximately 13,624 tCO2e upon fuel the marine industry with cleaner energy. Peninsular Malaysia. completion.  Moving Forward About this Report with Purpose The framework, Reporting Framework, 4 Scope and Boundaries boundaries and principles that guide us in our integrated reporting journey.  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Reporting Framework, Scope and Boundaries Reporting Framework, Scope and Boundaries Reporting Information that is Built on Benchmarked Principles Approval by the Board Navigating through this Integrated Report The PETRONAS Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibility in Dear Stakeholders, ensuring the integrity of this Integrated Report which in the Board’s opinion, addresses the Group’s ability to create value and fairly Tells you where you can find more information within this report Welcome to our inaugural PETRONAS Integrated Report 2020, which assesses our performance for the represent the Group’s integrated performance. Tells you where you can find more information online financial year ended 31 December 2020, focusing on the value we have created for our stakeholders. Our aim We believe that this report has been materially prepared in accordance is to share a balanced overview of our progress and impact. As a progressive energy and solutions partner Tells you where you can find more information on PETRONAS’ with the International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework. Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) digital solutions which endeavours to enrich lives for a sustainable future, we strive to always move forward with you. Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board: The following navigation icons are used to indicate various Tan Sri Ahmad Nizam Salleh How this Report Fits Together Chairman content elements: We measure our performance by evaluating how we create value for our key stakeholders, as well as progress against our strategy and by regularly measuring returns on invested capital. We understand the risks we take and manage them to minimise the impact on our business and results. We Tengku Muhammad Taufik Three-Pronged Growth Strategy are constantly seeking meaningful collaborations to provide solutions that enrich lives. We believe that it is only when lives are enriched that real President and Group Chief Executive Officer progress is achieved. Maximising Expanding Stepping Out Cash Core Business Generators The Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report is our Scope and Boundaries the impact of our actions on our social and relationship capital. We primary report. This report covers the period from 1 January until 31 December are proud to support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Six Capitals 2020, unless otherwise stated. The information presented relate Goals (SDGs) and we are committed to identifying and focusing on to the activities of the PETRONAS Group or its subsidiaries, joint the goals our business aligns with. operation, joint ventures as well as associates. Human Capital Financial Capital Integrated Report 2020 Forward-Looking Statements Provides a comprehensive overview of Financial and Non-Financial Reporting This report contains forward-looking statements. Words such as Social and This report extends beyond financial reporting. It reflects on non- “believe”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “seek”, “will”, “plan”, “could”, “may”, the Group’s financial and non-financial Manufactured Capital performance in 2020 and our outlook Relationship Capital financial performance, opportunities, risks and outcomes attributable “endeavour” and similar expressions are intended to identify such for 2021. to or associated with key stakeholders, who have a significant forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of influence on our ability to create value. identifying such statements. By their nature, forward-looking Natural Capital Intellectual Capital statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future The non-financial data in this report includes our owned and events and circumstances and should be considered in light of the operated businesses unless stated otherwise, in line with industry various important factors. While these forward-looking statements Key Stakeholders practices. It does not include data from equity interest fields/ represent our judgements and future expectations, a number of projects, such as joint ventures, where we do not have operational risks, uncertainties and other important factors could cause actual Financial Report 2020 Federal Government/ control. Those areas that we do not have operational control over, developments and results to differ materially from our expectations. Media Provides access to the Audited Financial Host Governments are included in the form of disclosures of management approach. Statements comprising Directors’ Report, The key factors that could cause our actual performance or The Group reporting standards are continually being developed achievements to differ materially from those in the forward-looking Financial Statements, Notes to the Financial State Shareholders/ and improved to make disclosures meaningful and measurable statements include changes to IFRS and associated interpretations, Statements and our Independent Auditors’ Governments Investors/Credit Report. for stakeholders. While we are not a public listed company, we applications and practices as they apply to past, present and future Rating Agencies/ are committed to this process as a means of adding value for our periods; ongoing and future acquisitions; changes to domestic Financial Institutions stakeholders as it creates better visibility and allows an informed and international businesses and market conditions such as Government Linked assessment of our operations. exchange rate and interest rate movements; changes in domestic Customers Companies (GLCs)/ and international regulatory and legislative environments; changes The Legislation and Frameworks that Guide Our Reporting to domestic and international operational, social, economic and Industry Players/Partners This report is guided by local and global standards, including: political conditions; any labour disruptions and industrial action; and the effects of both current and future litigations. Internal/ Communities/ • The International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework Employees Non-Governmental (IIRC), a principles-based approach that promotes the six Assurance Scan the QR code to access our Organisations (NGOs) capitals concept, and which considers material inputs as well as Financial information contained in this report and that has been Integrated Report 2020 and Financial Report 2020 resources required to create and sustain value in the long term extracted from the audited consolidated Audited Financial Material Topics • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020, • Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (MFRS) was audited by KPMG PLT. The Group’s greenhouse gas (GHG) These reports are supplemented by the following disclosures, which Climate Change Product Stewardship • IPIECA/API/IOGP Sustainability reporting guidance for oil and gas emissions for our Upstream, Gas + New Energy and Downstream can be accessed online via PETRONAS’ website www.petronas.com: and Environmental and Supply Chain industry operations in Malaysia for the years covering 2017 to 2019, have Management • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards been externally verified, to a limited level of assurance, by ERM CVS, PETRONAS Activity Outlook 2021-2023 an independent third-party assurance provider. The verification was Health, Well-Being Social Responsibility Sustainability carried out under ISO 14064-3. Furthermore, the Group’s social and the Workplace PETRONAS Half-Yearly Sustainability Report Through our policies and governance structures, we demonstrate risk management processes, which primarily focuses on human our commitment to ethical and sustainable entrepreneurship. We rights and is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and also acknowledge that our stakeholders are taking a growing interest Human Rights, was assessed by an independent party. PETRONAS Human Rights Report 2020 Safety Governance and Ethics in the sustainability of our operations and our approach to corporate citizenship. We take our responsibility seriously and are fully aware of 4 5  Moving Forward PETRONAS in 2020 with Courage Our purpose, We are PETRONAS 8 mandate, aspirations, Sustainability Agenda 10 Business Snapshots 14 structure and The Group Overview 16 presence. Corporate Structure 18  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 We are PETRONAS We are PETRONAS A Progressive Energy and Solutions Partner Enriching Lives For A Sustainable Future PETRONAS’ Statement of Purpose underscores who we are and why we do what we do, today and for the future. It demonstrates facilitating the management of climate change through various interventions, especially the reduction of greenhouse gas our passion for harnessing the transformative power of energy for the benefit of all. emissions across all sectors under our net zero carbon emissions by 2050 or NZCE 2050 aspiration. Established as the custodian of Malaysia's oil and gas resources in 1974, PETRONAS has since grown by leaps and bounds and As we commit to meeting the world’s growing energy needs in a responsible and holistic manner, we continue to build a is today a FORTUNE Global 500 energy company with a presence in over 50 countries. resilient portfolio for a sustainable future by leveraging on our Three-Pronged Growth Strategy that entails Maximising Cash Generators, Expanding Core Business and Stepping Out. Today, the requirement to deliver energy in a responsible and progressive manner has become all the more important. Being a conscientious player in the global energy sector, PETRONAS recognises its responsibility to balance out the threat of Having undergone a tumultuous year in 2020, PETRONAS has today emerged a more resilient, more agile and more relevant climate change with the mandate to produce affordable and reliable energy in a sustainable manner. This sees us passionately energy and solutions partner. As we steadfastly lay down strong foundations from which to venture forth into the new normal, we are confident of making resilient and sustainable progress to enrich lives and nations. Our Three-Pronged Growth Strategy Our Our Shared Values Sustainability Loyalty Loyal to corporation 1 Maximising Agenda Cash Generators Integrity Honest and upright Malaysia Integrated Cash generators are existing assets Value Chain Professionalism that provide strong and stable cash flows. Protecting and maximising Strive for excellence these assets are paramount to provide International Asset a solid base for profitability and a Cohesiveness foundation for growth. Continued United, trust and respect for each other Value Creation Our Our Cultural Beliefs Statement 2Expanding of Purpose Core Business Deliver Material Customer Focused Resources Safeguard the I deliver solutions from the customer lens The focus areas to define A progressive opportunities for further growth in Monetise Unconventional Environment our core business through value Positions energy and enhancement. We will cost-efficiently solutions partner expand the core business at pace with Grow the Integrated Business Be Enterprising a lower carbon footprint as our new Model and Expand Adjacencies I seek opportunities and make them enriching lives cash generators. happen for a sustainable future. Positive Social Innovate Now 3 Stepping Impact I challenge norms and push boundaries Out Specialty Chemicals Global trends brought on by Energy Transition are reshaping the energy Speak Up landscape, consumption patterns New Energy and consumer preference. We must I express my views openly continue to build our capabilities and Customer-Centric Responsible allocate resources to new businesses Solutions to better position ourselves for the Governance future in expanding our step-out Courage to Act beyond core business. I take action to progress with pace Our Brand Positioning: Passionate about Progress 8 9  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Sustainability Agenda Sustainability Agenda We recognise that we have a responsibility to balance out our economic ambitions with positive social and environmental Towards Net Zero Carbon Emissions by 2050 (NZCE 2050) considerations. PETRONAS’ Sustainability Agenda is the compass that guides us as we set out to deliver energy and solutions We are acutely aware of stakeholders’ expectations about climate actions that support the Paris Agreement. Hence, we have taken that fuel progress in a responsible manner. As we commit to uphold the Agenda, our actions are guided by four sustainability bold steps to embrace a lower-carbon energy future. lenses. In 2020, we set in motion our long-term aspiration of achieving NZCE 2050. With this landmark move, PETRONAS became the first oil and gas company in Southeast Asia to adopt this goal. Our NZCE 2050 aspiration underscores our ambition to meet higher Lens 1: Continued Value Creation sustainability goals for the longer term that address stakeholder concerns and support the Paris Agreement. Drive long-term business value creation through responsible In addition, it will not only strengthen the momentum of our climate actions but will also ensure that PETRONAS’ businesses Continued Value investments. remain resilient for the long term. It also provides the necessary impetus for us to pursue more climate-friendly solutions and Creation opportunities in the broader energy space that will create sustainable new values for the organisation. To accelerate our move towards NZCE 2050, we have set three short-term sustainability targets derived from PETRONAS’ ongoing Lens 2: Safeguard the Environment efforts on the material sustainability and corporate social responsibility fronts that will make the most impact on the environment Collaboratively reduce environmental and society. impact by transitioning to lower carbon energy solutions and deploying PETRONAS' Our Short-Term Targets Our Long-Term Aspiration innovative operations and technologies. Safeguard Four Positive the Sustainability Social Manage Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Environment Lenses Impact Cap GHG emissions at 49.5 million tonnes of carbon Lens 3: Positive Social Impact dioxide equivalent (MtCO 2e) for our Malaysia operations Create positive alliances with the by 2024. communities in which we operate by protecting and adding value to the Step up on Clean Energy Responsible well-being of employees, partners and aspiration is defined as Increase renewable energy capacity to 3,000 MW Governance society. “balancing the remaining Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG by 2024. emissions from its assets under operational control with carbon offsets”. Increase the Number of Education Beneficiaries Lens 4: Responsible Governance Reach over 24,000 beneficiaries through education These carbon offsets can take the form of energy-based Safeguard the organisation’s programmes cumulatively between 2020 to 2024. offsets or forest-based offsets. commitment through strong governance mechanisms and ethical business practices. 4 Levers Towards NZCE 2050 • Operational Excellence • Technology and Innovation As part of our sustainability efforts, we have also prioritised seven of the 17 United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) Grow value potential and continuously optimise operations Stewardship of economically feasible decarbonising which are most relevant to our Sustainability Agenda and the four lenses. These seven priority SDGs align with the PETRONAS for efficiency gains and compliance with legislation. technology and innovation in line with business priorities. Group’s business strategies, enable us to leverage our existing efforts and have significant impact on our business groupwide. As a major energy industry player, we recognise the immense impact that we have in the various spheres of influence that we • Low Carbon Energy and Solutions • Carbon Offset operate in. In line with our efforts to ensure that we maintain the trust of our stakeholders and the wider communities, PETRONAS Influence energy transition by use of low carbon fuel, Enabling carbon offsetting across businesses that capitalise upholds high standards of corporate governance, ethical business practices and transparency. scaled-up renewables, bioenergy, hydrogen, as well on technology deployment and businesses’ needs to offset as low carbon products and solutions that support a the remaining Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Adhering to the Agenda enables PETRONAS to embed corporate sustainability right into the core of our business and map this circular economy. through six Material Topics, namely: We have adopted two approaches in our journey to attain NZCE 2050: Climate Change and Safety Social Responsibility Environmental Management 1 Life Cycle Thinking 2 Just Transition This sees us employing the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) This sees us meaningfully participate and affect socio- methodology to estimate the environmental impacts economic opportunities through capability building and Health, Well-Being and the Product Stewardship and Governance and Ethics Workplace Supply Chain (including GHG impacts) occurring along the value chain of respect for the natural environment. our products, processes and solutions. 10 11  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Sustainability Agenda Sustainability Agenda Definition of Net Zero Carbon Emissions PETRONAS’ NZCE 2050 aspiration and roadmap are anchored on a high- level strategy with the principles of Measure, Reduce and Offset Balancing the remaining Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from PETRONAS’ assets under operational control with carbon offsets. GHG Emissions GHG Reduction Carbon Offsets Scope 1 - Direct Emissions Energy-Based Offsets Energy Efficiency Stationary Mobile Combustion Combustion Other Renewable Hydrogen Energy Process Flaring and Carbon Capture, Utilisation Combustion Venting and Storage New Plastic Bio-Agenda Economy Fugitive Combustion Flaring and Venting Reduction Scope 2 - Indirect Emissions Forest-Based Offsets Renewable Purchased Electricity Purchased Steam/ Electricity from Third Party Chilled Water from Third Party Measure Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions Reduce carbon emissions through operational Offset the remaining Scope 1 and (CO e) to meet capping at 49.5 million tCO e by 2024, and excellence efforts that generate value from Scope 2 GHG emissions after optimising 2 2 in determining an optimal reduction based on planned monetised hydrocarbon (flaring/venting/fuel gas) reduction efforts by securing carbon production. and deployment of Carbon Capture, Utilisation and credits registered under internationally Storage (CCUS) technologies. recognised schemes to achieve NZCE 2050. We are also pursuing low carbon businesses to secure future value pools. The NZCE 2050 mandate will be the catalyst for PETRONAS disclosures with international frameworks and standards such as the International Integrated Reporting Council or IIRC’s International to create new sources of differentiation while according us an operational advantage and competitive returns via more sustainable, <IR> Framework and Global Reporting Standards (GRI). We will also be aligning our disclosures with the World Economic Forum’s durable and resilient businesses that will benefit stakeholders, the environment and society as a whole. The aspiration keeps us (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD) recommendations in the steadfast and the short-term targets keeps us on track in our commitment to minimise the impact of our carbon footprint and near future. This will help us progressively measure our performance based on the roadmap, as well as ensure that all our initiatives ultimately strengthen our licence to operate. and efforts are fully aligned to global best practices. To help guide us in our journey towards NZCE 2050, we are currently developing a detailed roadmap that will outline the short As part of our commitment to sustainability, we became an official member of the World Business Council of Sustainable and mid-term sustainability targets we need to meet to achieve this aspiration. Concurrently, we have aligned our sustainability Development (WBCSD) and Methane Guiding Principle (MGP) in 2020. 12 13  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Business Snapshots Business Snapshots PETRONAS is the custodian of Malaysia’s national oil and gas resources as well as a global energy and solutions partner. As Malaysia’s fully integrated petroleum corporation, we explore, produce and deliver energy to meet society’s growing needs through our core businesses. Upstream Downstream PETRONAS’ Upstream business is a fully integrated business PETRONAS’ Downstream business plays a strategic role in consisting of Exploration, Development, Production and enhancing the value of PETRONAS’ petroleum resources by Malaysia Petroleum Management (MPM), covering a broad transforming molecules into high-quality, value-added products portfolio of resources and play types. PETRONAS’ Upstream for domestic and international markets. With more than 800 kilo presence extends across more than 20 countries globally, with barrels per day (kbpd) of refining capacity, Downstream’s full 247 producing fields, 432 offshore platforms and 30 floating spectrum of activities include refining, trading and marketing facilities. Upstream also promotes sustainable and orderly of crude oil and petroleum products, as well as manufacturing development of Malaysia’s petroleum resources through 96 and marketing of petrochemical products including olefins, active Petroleum Arrangement Contracts (PACs), including polymers, fertilisers, methanols, other specialty chemicals and within the Malaysia-Thailand Joint Development Area and is derivative products. With a drive for designing solutions from involved in 27 PACs internationally. The Upstream business the customer lens, the Downstream business is committed to continues to deliver results operationally through a combination ensuring a seamless customer experience towards becoming of strategic and decisive measures. We shape and implement the preferred solutions partner worldwide. rigorous measures to reduce costs and maintain liquidity, while also strengthening our portfolio by encouraging more value- driven exploration and development of discovered resources to promote a vibrant oil and gas landscape. Refer to pages 72 to 81 for more details. Refer to pages 92 to 101 for more details. Project Delivery and Gas + New Energy Technology PETRONAS’ Gas + New Energy (G+NE) business comprises PETRONAS’ Project Delivery and Technology (PD&T) Division the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), Gas and Power, New Energy is responsible for servicing, safeguarding and shaping the and Hydrogen business segments. Operating in 12 countries Group’s growth and future positioning strategies with distinctive with more than 4,000 employees globally, G+NE serves as research and technical expertise, innovative solutions, as well as PETRONAS’ one-stop centre for cleaner energy solutions. Its robust systems and processes. PD&T aims to innovate with pace portfolio underscores our commitment to advance into the and enable tech-digital transformation for PETRONAS, as well as future as a cleaner energy solutions partner to support the global leverage technology and digital synergy to achieve sustainable energy transition that has accelerated the shift of energy sources and regenerative development. Serving as the builder of the from fossil-based to lower carbon-based sources. We also aim engines that drive groupwide growth for PETRONAS, PD&T is to ensure long-term value creation and profitable growth for committed to maximising the value produced by the Group’s PETRONAS and its partners by focusing on customer-centricity, businesses with a strengthened digital landscape, harnessing operational and commercial excellence, and sustainability, data to deliver value through tech-digital products and supported by the right talent, culture and digital innovations. solutions. PD&T’s role has become even more crucial in the face of unprecedented challenges moving forward as PETRONAS At G+NE, we continuously innovate to develop energy solutions steps out to pursue new areas of opportunity beyond oil and to meet our customers’ energy demand. The “+” symbol in our gas while meeting its NZCE 2050 aspiration. name denotes the value we create from the innovative solutions we offer, that go beyond conventional energy solution. “+” also represents the new and future energy that is part of the suite of cleaner energy solutions we offer. All in all, the “+” underscores our desire to deliver above and beyond the convention, for the purpose of enriching lives for a sustainable future. Refer to pages 82 to 91 for more details. Refer to pages 102 to 109 for more details. 14 15  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 The Group Overview The Group Overview E Europe PETRONAS Around the World Upstream • Ireland – Lubricants Upstream Gas + New Energy • Ireland – Abandonment, Decommissioning • Italy – Lubricants • Kosovo – Lubricants Gas + New Energy • Latvia – Lubricants Downstream Project Delivery and • United Kingdom – LNG, Gas Marketing and Trading • Lithuania – Lubricants Technology Downstream • • L Mu ax ce em dobo niu ar g – – Lu L bu rb icr aic na tn sts • Albania – Lubricants • Malta – Lubricants • Andorra – Lubricants • Martinique – Lubricants Location • Austria – Lubricants • Moldova – Lubricants • Azerbaijan – Lubricants • Netherlands – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Belarus – Lubricants • Norway – Lubricants • Belgium – Lubricants • Poland – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Bosnia-Herz. – Lubricants • Portugal – Lubricants • Bulgaria – Lubricants • Romania – Lubricants • Croatia – Lubricants • Russia – Lubricants • Cyprus – Lubricants • Serbia – Lubricants • Czech Republic – Lubricants • Slovakia – Lubricants • Denmark – Lubricants • Slovenia – Lubricants • Estonia – Lubricants • Spain – Lubricants • Finland – Lubricants • Sweden – Lubricants • France – Lubricants • Switzerland – Lubricants • Georgia – Lubricants • Ukraine – Lubricants • Germany – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • United Kingdom – Lubricants • Greece – Lubricants • Vatican City – Lubricants • Hungary – Lubricants • Iceland – Lubricants Project Delivery and Technology • Italy AP Asia Pacific Upstream Downstream • Australia – Development, Production • Australia – Petrochemicals, Lubricants E • Brunei – Exploration, Development, Production • Bangladesh – Lubricants • Indonesia – Exploration, Development, Production • Brunei – Lubricants • Malaysia – Exploration, Development, Production, • Cambodia – Lubricants Abandonment • China – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Malaysia-Thailand Joint Development Area – • Fiji – Lubricants Development, Production • Hong Kong – Lubricants CA • Myanmar – Development, Production • India – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Vietnam – Production • Indonesia – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Japan – Petrochemicals, Lubricants Gas + New Energy • Malaysia – Petrochemicals, Retail, Refinery, Lubricants NA • Australia – LNG • Maldives – Lubricants • China – LNG Marketing • Myanmar – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • India – LNG Marketing, Solar • Nepal – Lubricants • Indonesia – Gas Infrastructure • New Zealand – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Japan – LNG Marketing • Papua New Guinea – Lubricants • Malaysia – LNG, Solar, Gas Processing, Gas • Philippines – Petrochemicals, Lubricants Transportation, Utilities, Regasification, Gas Marketing • Singapore – Petrochemicals, Lubricants ME and Trading • South Korea – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Thailand – LNG Marketing, Gas Infrastructure • Sri Lanka – Lubricants A • South Korea – LNG Marketing • Taiwan – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Thailand – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Vietnam – Petrochemicals, Lubricants AP Project Delivery and Technology • Brunei • Indonesia • Myanmar • Malaysia A Africa Upstream • Cameroon – Lubricants • Chad – Development, Production • Cote d’Ivoire – Lubricants • Egypt – Exploration • Egypt – Lubricants • Gabon – Exploration • Ethiopia – Lubricants • Gambia – Exploration • Guinea – Lubricants • Mauritania – Abandonment, Decommissioning • Lesotho – Retail, Lubricants • Republic of South Sudan – Development, Production • Libya – Lubricants • Republic of Sudan – Midstream • Madagascar – Lubricants • Senegal – Exploration • Mauritius – Retail, Lubricants • Namibia – Retail, Lubricants LA Gas + New Energy • South Africa – Refinery, Retail, Lubricants, Petrochemicals • Egypt - LNG • Republic of South Sudan – Lubricants Breakdown of Employees by • Swaziland – Retail, Lubricants Downstream • Togo – Lubricants Region (%) • Democratic Republic of the Congo – Retail, Lubricants • Tunisia – Lubricants • Angola – Lubricants • Botswana – Retail, Lubricants Project Delivery and Technology • Burkina Faso – Lubricants • Egypt • Mauritania • Republic of South Sudan • Burundi – Lubricants Africa CA NA Central Asia North America 6.8% 2019 6.7% 2020 Upstream Upstream • Azerbaijan – Development, Production • Canada (Unconventional) – Development, Production • Turkmenistan – Development, Production • Mexico – Exploration Asia • United States of America – Exploration Downstream 84.8% 2019 • Armenia – Lubricants Gas + New Energy • Kazakhstan – Lubricants • Canada – LNG (Under construction) 84.6% 2020 • Kyrgyzstan – Lubricants • Turkmenistan – Lubricants Downstream • Uzbekistan – Lubricants • Canada – Petrochemicals, Lubricants Australia and New Zealand • Mexico – Lubricants 0.1% 2019 Project Delivery and Technology • United States of America – Petrochemicals, Lubricants • Turkmenistan Project Delivery and Technology 0.1% 2020 • Canada LA Latin America Commonwealth of Independent States Upstream Middle East ME 1.5% 2019 • Argentina (Unconventional) – Development, Production • Brazil – Exploration, Development, Production Upstream 1.4% 2020 • Suriname – Exploration • Iraq – Development, Production Employment Type Gender Distribution Total Employees Downstream • Oman – Development, Production Europe • Argentina – Lubricants Gas + New Energy • Brazil – Lubricants • United Arab Emirates – LNG Marketing, Solar 2 2. .6 7% % 22 00 21 09 Year 2020 Year 2019 Year 2020 Year 2019 Year 2020 Year 2019 • ••• C CBB oe h ol l i li i l uz v e me i a – – b – L i aL uL u b –ub rb ir Lcri uc i ac ba nan rtn ist cts as nts D • o Bw ahn rs at ir ne a –m Lubricants • Costa Rica – Lubricants • Iraq – Lubricants Middle East • • D Eco um adin oic r a –n LR ue bp riu cb al nic ts – Lubricants • • J Ko ur wd aa in t –– LL uu bb rr ii cc aa nn tt ss 2.1% 2019 86% Permanent 88% 72% Male 73% • • E Gl u S aa tl ev mad ao lar –– LL uu bb rr ii cc aa nn tt ss • • L Oe mba an no –n L– u bL ru icb ari nc ta snts 2.4% 2020 • Guyana – Lubricants • Palestine – Lubricants 48,679 47,669 • Haiti – Lubricants • Qatar – Lubricants • Honduras – Lubricants • Saudi Arabia – Lubricants North and South America • • N Paic na ar mag au –a L– u L bu rib cr aic na tsnts • • T Uu nr ik tee dy A– r P abet Ero mc ih rae tm esic –al s Petrochemicals, Lubricants 2.1% 2019 14% Contract 12% 28% Female 27% • • P Pa er ra ug –u a Ly u b– r iL cu ab nr ti scants Project Delivery and Technology 2.1% 2020 • • S Uu ruri gn ua am ye – – L L uu bb rir cic aa nn tst s • Iraq Project Delivery and Technology • Turkmenistan 16 17  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Corporate Structure Corporate Structure Wholly-owned Subsidiaries (170) Partly Owned Subsidiaries (56) Associate Companies (44) PETRONAS Carigali Sdn Bhd Kebabangan Petroleum Operating Co. Sdn Bhd (40%) PCPP Operating Company Sdn Bhd (40%) PETRONAS Carigali Overseas Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Carigali Nigeria Limited PC Randugunting Ltd PETRONAS Carigali (Ketapang Ltd) PETRONAS Carigali (West Galagah Kambuna) Ltd. PETRONAS Carigali (Surumana) Ltd PETRONAS Carigali White Nile (5B) Ltd PC Lampung II Ltd PETRONAS Carigali (Australia) Pty Ltd PC JDA Limited Carigali Hess Operating Co. Sdn Bhd (50%) Carigali-PTTEPI Operating Co. Sdn Bhd (50%) E&P Venture Solutions Co. Sdn Bhd BC Petroleum Sdn Bhd (20%) E&P O&M Services Sdn Bhd E&P Malaysia Venture Sdn Bhd Vestigo Petroleum Sdn Bhd Ophir Production Sdn Bhd (20%) PETRONAS Assets Sdn Bhd Petrofibre Network (M) Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Digital Sdn Bhd Virtus IP Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Hartabina Sdn Bhd PRBF Holdings Corporation Sdn Bhd PRBF Properties Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Trading Corporation Sendirian Berhad PETCO Trading (UK) Limited PETCO Trading Labuan Company Ltd PETCO Trading DMCC P.T. PETRONAS Niaga Indonesia PETRONAS Technical Services Sdn Bhd PTSSB DMCC PETRONAS Technology Ventures Sdn Bhd PTV International Ventures Ltd PETRONAS Global Technical Solutions Sdn Bhd OGP Technical Services Sdn Bhd 18 19  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Corporate Structure Corporate Structure Wholly-owned Subsidiaries (170) Partly Owned Subsidiaries (56) Associate Companies (44) PETRONAS International Corporation Ltd Transasia Pipeline Company Pty Ltd (35%) PT Transportasi Gas Indonesia (40%) PETRONAS Carigali Myanmar Inc. PETRONAS Carigali (Turkmenistan) Sdn Bhd MITCO Labuan Co. Limited PCM Chemical India Private Limited PETRONAS Carigali Nile Ltd Petrodar Operating Company Ltd (40%) SUDD Petroleum Operating Co. Ltd (67.875%) Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company (30%) DAR Petroleum Operating Co. Ltd (40%) Greater Pioneer Operating Co. Ltd (30%) PICL (Egypt) Corporation Ltd Egyptian LNG Co. S.A.E (35.5%) Burullus Gas Company S.A.E (25%) WDDM Energy Ltd Idku Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E (38%) Nada Properties Co. Ltd El Beherah Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E (35.5%) PC Madura Ltd Egyptian Operating Company for Natural Liquefaction PC Muriah Ltd Project S.A.E (35.5%) PC (Myanmar) Holdings Limited PC Myanmar (Hong Kong) Limited PETRONAS Carigali Myanmar III Inc. Taninthayi Pipeline Co Limited Liability Company (30%) PETRONAS Carigali (Jabung) Ltd PP Oil & Gas Indonesia Holding Ltd (50%) PICL Marketing Thailand Ltd Myanmar PETRONAS Trading Company Limited PETRONAS (Thailand) Co. Ltd PC Vietnam Limited Lam Son Joint Operating Company (50%) PC Mauritania I Pty Ltd PC Mauritania II B.V PETRONAS Philippines Inc Parsi International Ltd Argentinean Pipeline Holding Company S.A PETRONAS Australia Pty Ltd PAPL Services Pty Ltd PAPL (Upstream) Pty Ltd PAPL (Upstream II) Pty Ltd PAPL (Downstream) Pty Ltd Labuan Energy Corporation Limited PSE Ireland Limited LEC Ireland Employment Limited PETRONAS LNG Sdn Bhd Japan Malaysia LNG Co. Ltd (93%) PETRONAS Energy (India) Private Limited PETRONAS LNG (UK) Ltd PETRONAS LNG Ltd PETRONAS Energy Trading Limited PNW LNG Marketing Sdn Bhd LNG Investments Europe Ltd PETRONAS Carigali Brunei Ltd 20 21  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Corporate Structure Corporate Structure Wholly-owned Subsidiaries (170) Partly Owned Subsidiaries (56) Associate Companies (44) PETRONAS International Corporation Ltd (Continued) PETRONAS (E&P) Overseas Ventures Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Iraq Garraf Ltd Natuna 1 B.V. PETRONAS Carigali Canada B.V. PETRONAS Carigali International E&P B.V. PETRONAS Carigali Iraq Holding B.V. PETRONAS Brasil E&P Limitada PETRONAS Angola E & P Ltd Garraf Technical Services Ltd PETRONAS Azerbaijan Upstream Sdn Bhd PC Kualakurun Ltd PC North Madura II Ltd PETRONAS Carigali Chad Exploration & Production Inc PC Senegal Ltd Petroliam Manpower Services Mexico S.A. de C.V. PC Sakakemang B.V. PC Gambia Ltd PETRONAS Petroleo Brasil Limitada PC Oman Ventures Ltd Petroliam Manpower Support Services Mexico S.A. de C.V. PETRONAS Carigali International Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Gebang Indonesia B.V. PETRONAS Andaman III Indonesia B.V. PETRONAS West Papua IV Indonesia B.V. PETRONAS Aru Indonesia B.V. PETRONAS Lubricants International Sdn Bhd PLI (Netherlands) B.V. PLI Italy SPA PETRONAS Base Oil (M) Sdn Bhd PETRONAS Lubricants Africa Ltd PETRONAS Lubricants (India) Private Limited PLAL DMCC PETRONAS Lubricants China Company Limited Guangxi Beihai Yuchai PETRONAS - 50% held by High Quality Lube Co. Ltd. (50%) Guangxi Yuchai PETRONAS Lubricants (Shandong) Co., Ltd Machinery Group Co. Ltd. PETRONAS Marketing (China) Co. Ltd PT PLI Indonesia PLI Australia Pty. Limited 22 23  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) Integrated Report 2020 Corporate Structure Corporate Structure Wholly-owned Subsidiaries (170) Partly Owned Subsidiaries (56) Associate Companies (44) PETRONAS International Power Corporation B.V. Amplus Energy Solution Pte. Ltd. Amplus Energy Solutions FZE Amplus Energy Solutions (Thailand) Co Ltd. Amplus Energy Solutions Private Limited Amplus Solar Power Private Limited Amplus Solar Solutions Private Limited Amplus Andhra Power Private Limited Amplus Power Solutions Private Limited Amplus KN Solar Private Limited Amplus Sun Solutions Private Limited Amplus Solar Power MH Private Limited Amplus Costal Power Private Limited Amplus RJ Solar Private Limited Amplus Green One Power Private Limited Solbridge Energy Private Limited Amplus Power Supply Private Limited Amplus KN One Power Private Limited Amplus Management Services Private Limited Amplus Poorva Private Limited (70%) Amplus Shams Private Limited Amplus Ages Private Limited Grian Energy Private Limited OneVolt Energy Private Limited Sunroot Energy Private Limited Amplus Dakshin Private Limited (74%) Amplus Venus Private Limited Nay Energy Private Limited (74%) Amplus Tumkur Solar Energy One Private Limited Amplus Pavagada Solar Energy Two Private Limited Amplus Phoenix Energy Private Limited Amplus IIFA Solar Private Limited Amplus Solar Shakti Private Limited Amplus Centaur Solar Private Limited Amplus Ampere Private Limited PETRONAS Power Sdn Bhd Eastern Sabah Power Consortium Sdn Bhd (30%) Voltage Renewables Sdn Bhd (70%) NE Suria Satu Sdn Bhd (80%) PETRONAS International Power Corporation (Mauritius) Ltd Pacificlight Power Pte. Ltd (30%) Pacificlight Energy Pte. Ltd (30%) 24 25 